# Predicting-Sexual-Violence-In-Media

DESCRIPTION: This software uses data collected from https://www.unconsentingmedia.org/ to train a stacked model for predicting whether or not a movie, book, or tv show, contains any range of sexual violence. The inputs to the model are the year the media was released, the type of media, genres, and a brief overview of the media. The overview is used to train a simple Naive Bayes classification model that then is stacked with an Adaptive boosting model to predict the binary class of sexual violence. The data has 8987 rows and 58 columns of data. This specific version of the software was designed for an interactive (but basic) user interface where the user is able to search the database for an item and is returned information about that media, then if the media is not found, the user can predict using the model. The model will output a classification of your media into ‘containing’ or ‘not containing’ sexual violence. The model currently reports a 71% accuracy, so this program should be used with that level of correct outputs in mind.

BACKGROUND: The use of this software is for users who want to filter out media that may contain sexual violence in an attempt to give them agency over what they watch. Current media ratings do not take into account sexual violence and it is therefore difficult to find information on this topic before watching it. This can be an issue for people who themselves have experienced sexual assault and wish to prepare themselves or avoid watching that content.

IMPLEMENTATION: This program requires several python libraries to be downloaded (os, padas, cmd, and sklearn). The code uses simple I/O so it can be run locally on your favorite IDE or from your terminal. This code relies on the data contained in the ‘full_media_df’ file so that must be properly downloaded and stored in the same file as the python code file, or you must have the file location. 


DATA EXPLANATION:
Unnamed: 0: Unused ID column inserted by pandas join (int)

Id: Unique row index for media items (int)

Title: Title of the media (string)

itemType: Media category of either: TV show, Movie, or Book (string)

yearOfRelease: Year value that the media was released, or published. Scraped from Google using keywords: [title+yearOfRelease+itemType+release+date] -or- [title+yearOfRelease+itemType+published] (int)

Columns ‘action’ through ‘youngadult’: Genre data about the media (int, binary data)

SV_binary: Boolean class label generated from sexual violence data (int)

Overview: Synopsis data on media scraped from Google using keywords: [title+yearOfRelease+itemType+synopsis] (string)

Unnamed: 0: Unused ID column inserted by pandas join (Same as previous column)

Id: Unique row index for media items (Same as previous column)

Columns ‘norape’ through ‘rapeOnScreen’: Sexual violence data converted to create SV_binary column (int, boolean data)

Columns ‘TV show’, ‘Book’, and ‘Movie’ : Dummy data generated by itemType column (int, boolean data)

